Okay, where do we start? We are inside the dotfiles repo.
Lets see the current status.

l

Im using colorls to have sane file sizes, git status, some 
icons and highlights for recently changed stuff.
And im lazy, trying to type as little as possible .. hence l 
to see all normal files and ll to list everyting.

ll

we currently are on branch master, red indicates its dirty, lets see why

gs

diff-so-fancy will give a more detailed look at what changed also marking 
changes inside a line. ga will also tab complete changed files

ga demo-tab
gc last additions to the demo script

Since im lazy, i dont like to cd here, than cd there and than cd to the next folder
I use fasd to remember my locations and to create shortcuts based on recent usage.

c kunde

This also works with files!
Oh, lets test this new idea and change this alias

v ali

Open any file from everywhere!

This was SpaceVim, which is also included.
Lets have a look whats in here

l

oh, most of the folders start with the same kp_micro_ .. no luck tab completiing
there, but what if we ..

cd sso TAB

Yes, you dont have to start typing from the beginning! Very nice!
Lets have a look into this version file

cat verTAB

Try that with bash .. you dont need to write upper case letters!
ZSH will also let you see all matching alternatives.

cat reTAB TAB (release.sh)

And also this is not the normal cat, its bat which also gives you syntax highlighting
Speeking of which

which cat

I pimped the which command a lil - it will even show the current version for
commands that suppord the kinda standard --version flag.
Lets go back to the dotfiles folder.

c dot

You can also use number to go back up to 9 directories.

3
4

Also included are some fonts and the iTerm colors shown here.
Lets have a look into the git history. You can dotfiles

git log

But im also too lazy for that .. and lets be honest, this could hold some more info

gg

Have a look into the alias file to find some more usefull stuff like 

ip

showing off your current ip and details, so if you constantly for get the zip code

ip J .postal

What was that? It's called a global alias. So J ist basically | jq where jq 
is a must have tool, if you work with JSON. I have defined some of those since 
they are very handy:

rg "alias -g" .alias

So if you want to find the redis process

ps aux G redis

So basically G is a shortcut for "| rg" which previously was G for grep.
But nobody should use grep anymore if ripgrep is available on the system. 
And even if its not, there still are better choices like ack.

Are you a fan of CTRL-R?
There is a feature called history reverse search that basically works in all 
linux distros, but is disabled by default.
Let me show you

ssh RIGHT ARROW

You can use the right arrow to complete the suggestion or use the up arrow to cycle
through all history entries matching whatever you typed.

Being logged into a remote system will change the prompt to show you that you are
on a remote system.
Now is the time to press CTRL-R, but this time its much different and cooler 
than the default version

CTRL-R
input

exit

Did you ever ping some box and hated the kiind of output you get?

ping 1.1.1.1

Meet prettyping, i love it! :)

Lets start something in the background.

redis-server &

The little cog wheel shows that there is something running and will also prevent
you fron accidentally closing that session.
The kill command also got an upgrade, you can now tab complete.

kill redTAB
redis-server &

Or for more complex stuff, use fkill, which can close that 
nasty app running on port 6379

fkill
6379

There are many more usefull tools in 

c misc
cat ess TAB
cat addi TAB

Probably one of the most usefull one is tldr that spare you to read those 
horible man pages and also shows some usefull examples.

tldr curl

But dont use curl. ;)
Use http(ie) or http-prompt for more complex stuff.

Did you ever find yourself in the position, where you wanted to scroll back
to the first lines of your console output? Or did you ever want to know how long 
some command was running?
hr will draw a line in case having a colored promt is not enough.

hr

Also in the background all commands are measured and everything longer than 3s
will leave stats after it finished. Lets have a look at the while showing of 
another cool feature: vim global history

v ali

stats up here for longer running commands
oldest change was from 2019/10/23 17:04:47

So now all vim changes are persited at a local cache directory.

cd /Users/andy/.cache/SpaceVim/undofile
l

dus
which dus

And its hardly taking up any noticible space. But having it setup saved 
my ass so many times already! :)

So, what was blocking that port 6379 again? 
Lets find out .. and may directly kill it.

fkill :6379

echo $PATH

Oh thats kinda hard to read, isnt it?

path

Ahhh .. much better .. and sorted!
Sorting is bad you say?
If you really what to see why app x is used from path 1 instead of path 2, which
is now listing everything, like in this case:

c sal
which uwsgi

So, we have this fancy zipped file .. 

wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.8.2/Python-3.8.2.tar.xz

But what the hell is xz supposed to be?
Ah, we dont care!

x py<tab>

Be gone!

rd Python-3.8.2*

Oh, and what also saved my ass multiple times: the rd alias is deleting 
with trash cli so you can actually undelete stuff again!

undelete

And its back - Yeah!

Lets quickly share that file.
We have to options here with zero setup:

send py<tab>

Or lets send the whole directory!

send .

Or lets hand pick some files in the browser:

server

Those apps dont use the right ip?
Hmm, how do we get the right one again?
Lets figure that out on the go with the up command tied to CRTL+p

ifconfig | grep inet | grep -v inet6 | cut -d ' ' -f2

Actually the extract column thing is used so many times, 
that i found a handy tool for that task

ifconfig | grep inet | grep -v inet6 | ec 2

fin